-: Welcome back in this lecture we are going to
create the Myas scale deployment manifest.
As part of that we are going to create environmental
variables related to or myas scale deployment related
to route password and all those stuff.
And we are going to create the volume mounts
and then also create the volumes for our container, right?
In addition to that, we are also going to
create my skill flash IP service manifest.
So let's go ahead and then do that now.
So let's go to our visual studio cord
and we will start with our myas skill deployment.
So as we should we'll start
with a version and then kind metadata and spec, right?
And now our kind is nothing but we are going to
use deployment and it's question is apps slash V one
and we are going to say metadata.
We are going to say the name
as we are going to create a Myas skill deployment.
So I'll just say Myas skill
and under spec we'll have three top level objects.
Okay? So ideally we'll have something called replicas
and we'll have selector in general
and then template which is nothing but our port template
whatever we are going to write.
But here we are also going to have one more extra
which is nothing.
But if you want we can define usually strategy.
Okay? So our strategy type is going to be rolling
up data recreate, okay?
So we are going to say recreate, it's a database, right?
So whenever this pod pyramids again recreate that pod, okay?
So that's what we are saying.
It'll always be only one replica, this database
and we really don't need to have any rolling updates
of those stuff.
Okay? And the selector, we know
that we'll have something called match labels under that.
So let's define our match label is app
is equal to Myas skill.
Okay? So the same thing we need to define
for our container related template.
Metadata labels also.
Okay, so now
under template again we are going to have two things, right?
So one is metadata of your part and second is spec.
Okay? So now
under metadata you are going to define if ideally it
we really don't need to define the name of our part here
because it is part of the deployment, right?
So if we define labels, that will be sufficient, okay?
And it should be same as our perspective match labels
whatever we define here, app is equal to Myas skill.
So now under the spec we'll have the child elements
one is containers and the other is volumes.
Okay? So two things earlier we used to have only containers
in our previous whatever
in our Kubernetes fundamentals are everywhere.
So now we are introducing the concept of volumes.
So we are going to also add volumes here.
Okay? So now in the pod template spec we have created
we are going to add containers and then volumes.
So let's start with the containers now.
So under containers we are going to have a name
of my container, okay?
And image name, right?
And so name of my container is myas skill and I'm going to
use the myki 5.6 container image, okay?
And now container is done.
So something I need to provide for con myas skill
container is and environmental variables.
Okay? So I'm going to define those things, okay?
So that is going to be what are those things?
Okay, my SQ underscore root underscore password
and it's value is going to be DB password one month.
So we are going to use DB password one one, right?
So for the container, one more thing important is
right ports.
So let's define that ports
right? So I'll say
Container port is equal 3, 3 0 6 and name up this port.
I can say Maya skill port, right?
So that's the thing so far.
Now we'll leave it here and then we'll under containers
for this container we have the environmental variable
and all those stuff defined.
So, now if you see here you can find a little bit
of mistake here you can see, right?
So under containers you have a container named Myas skill
and the image.
So this and ENV and then ports also part of this container
right name Myas skill.
So we need to do this way.
So now if you see name, image, ENV ports all are
under single line, you can see that, right?
So that's good.
So now the next thing is volumes.
Okay? So these are again one more top level, right
under spec one is containers, another is volumes.
So we are going to define two volumes here.
Okay? So now let's start with the first volume.
Okay? So, and the name of the volume is
Myas skill Persistent Storage.
And here we are going to mount persistent volume
claim and claim name.
I am going to provide this EBS Myas skill PV claim.
So whatever we have created here, right?
EBS myas skill, Levy claim the same thing,
it should be here.
Okay? So now what happened is we have mounted
for our respective container one volume, which is
Myas Skill persistent storage with name and we
are mounting the persistent volume claim
Namer EBS myas skill claim.
So one more we need to map, which is nothing but our
Config map user management DB creation script
we are going to map it.
Okay so user, so we can go here and then get that name.
So it's a big name.
So let's copy it here and then come back.
Where is this?
Here right and paste the name here.
Okay. And now we are going to have something called, it is
off type config map, right?
And what is the name of the config map?
It is going to be the same thing, whatever we have
copied just now.
Okay, and I'll say script.
Good. So now we have mounted volumes also.
So now these volumes we are going to use as volume mounts
inside our container, right?
So these are the volumes available for us which we need to
mount in our respective container.
Namer Myas skill, okay, so let's go ahead and then
mount those volumes in our container.
So for that purpose equal and like how name image E
and reports at the same level you need to write something
called volume mounts.
Okay? So now you can define here name of the mount
and the mount path.
Okay so now name of the mount is
Myas skill Persistent Storage.
So I can give that
Same name here, right?
And Mount Path I'm going to use is where Live Myas skill
okay? So which is nothing but the storage
of Myas skill will be presenting via lab Myas skill.
So we are mounting that folder
to our container Myas skill container.
So one more we will have, so again me
and then mount but okay and we are going to
mount the user management DB creation script.
Okay? And when you want to mount it
during the docker entry point initiation db dot D.
Okay? So we'll see what it is shortly.
Okay, so Docker entry point in DB dot D.
So let's come back.
What does Docker entry point in DB do?
So when a container is started
for the first time a new database
with the specified name will be created
and initialized with the provided configuration variables.
So we are going to create user MGMT database there
and using the data skill, my db script do skill, okay
so whenever the container starts for the first time
so it is going to create that.
So that's what we have created it in our config map
the drop if any database exists
and then create that database, User mgmt
and then mount it.
Okay, so mount it here so that
and then use that docker entry point.
You need DB here.
Whenever you mount then the mount part you are
going to use docker entry point.
You need db so that it is
it is going to run this script whenever
the first time the container is going to start.
So it'll run this Myas skill user management
dot skill script.
So that's about it.
So now we are going to go ahead
and then create our plus tripe service Now.
So we have completed that deployment part
which is nothing but the Myas skill deployment.
We have completed if you want we can see one more time.
So we have created the base template here and then
after that we under the spec we have something
can the replica selector strategy and then template.
So template is port template strategies
as it is database it need to recreate.
There is no rolling
or another strategies upload, standard recreate type.
We are going to apply
and selector is going to be under match labels app.
Myas skill and replica always it is going to be one part.
So it is one.
And now under the port template
as usual metadata and spec will be available
and the metadata we have defined our part label
as app is equal to myas skill.
And then a spec will have two things here
containers and then volumes.
So we have created two volumes.
One is further persistent storage, mapping it with our ebs
myas skill PV claim, whatever we have created.
And the second is user management DB creation script.
That is nothing but the config map.
We have map those two volumes
and then these two volumes will be map
to our respect to part.
And from part we are going to mount it to our container
which is nothing but our volume mounts here.
And in the volume mount we are going to create a mount
for myas skill persistent storage
under the mount point where live Myas skill
which is nothing
but the core Myas skill database storage data files part
and the another is user management DB creation script
under the mound path
Docker entry point in it, db, which is nothing
but whenever our container is going to start
for the first time, so whatever is present
in the config map, it is going to run.
So that's about the myas skill deployment.
In our next step we are going to
create the cluster tripe service.
So let's go ahead and then create the first time
which is nothing, but we one and the kind is equal
to service and I'm going to say metadata
and I'm going to say name, which is going to be Myas skill.
Okay? So and next is going to be spec and it is a service.
So and it is a cluster P service
whatever we are going to create.
So we are going to have selector and then ports usually.
Okay? So, and I'm going to give the ports 33 0 6, okay?
And selector is going to be app is equal to myas skill
which means whatever that traffic comes to this service
it need to route to the pod.
Who's the selector who label matches
with app is called myas skill.
Now another thing important here is we already
know that Myas skill deployment is going to
be always only one pod.
So which is nothing, but this is the only one part.
So we are not going to scale it
or we are not going to have multiple replicas
if we know that is going to happen.
So we can do one more setting in our service
which is nothing, but cluster IP is equal to none.
What does this mean?
This means, okay
so we are going to use for IP directly, okay?
So we really don't need to allocate a separate IP address
in our network for this respect to cluster IP service.
Myas skill, we can leverage directly using the port ip.
Whenever you say cluster IP is none.
So that's about the entire spec creation
whatever we have created for myas skill deployment
and then myas skill service.
So this completes the step two
which is nothing but creating off our entire manifest, okay?
Storage class, persistent volume claim, user management
config map, myas skill deployment
and then myas skill cluster strip service.
Okay? So in our next lecture we are going to
create these things and then test these things, connect
to that Myas skill database and then test it end to end.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.